README.md, before:

# FRITZ!Box Upnp statistics exporter for Prometheus

This exporter exports some variables from an [AVM Fritzbox](https://avm.de/produkte/fritzbox/) to Prometheus.

### (Looking for additional maintainers!)

[![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter) ![Test Docker](https://github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/workflows/Test%20Docker/badge.svg) ![Contributions](https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-brightgreen)

![FRITZ!Box Prometheus Exporter](./docs/logo.svg)

## Compatibility

This exporter is known to work with the following models:

| Model          | Firmware |
|----------------|----------|
| FRITZ!Box 4040 | 06.83    |
| FRITZ!Box 7390 | 06.51    |
| FRITZ!Box 7490 | 06.51    |
| FRITZ!Box 6490 | 06.52    |
| FRITZ!Box 7560 | 06.92    |

**FRITZ!OS 7 is not fully supported!**

## Building

```bash
go get github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/cmd/exporter
go get ./...
go build
```

## Prerequisites

There has to be UPnP enabled.

## FRITZ!OS 7.00+

`Heimnetz` > `Netzwerk` > `Netwerkeinstellungen` > `Statusinformationen über UPnP übertragen`

## FRITZ!OS 6

`Heimnetz` > `Heimnetzübersicht` > `Netzwerkeinstellungen` > `Statusinformationen über UPnP übertragen`

## Usage

```bash
$GOPATH/src/github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/cmd/exporter/exporter -h
Usage $GOPATH/src/github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/cmd/exporter/exporter:
  -gateway-address string
      The hostname or IP of the FRITZ!Box (default "fritz.box")
  -gateway-port int
      The port of the FRITZ!Box UPnP service (default 49000)
  -listen-address string
      The address to listen on for HTTP requests. (default ":9133")
  -test
      print all available metrics to stdout
```

### With Docker

```shell
docker run -d --name fritzbox-exporter -p "9133:9133" mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter
```

Then call the metrics endpoint on http://localhost:9133/metrics

## Exported metrics

These metrics are exported:

```bash
# HELP fritzbox_exporter_collect_errors Number of collection errors.
# TYPE fritzbox_exporter_collect_errors counter
fritzbox_exporter_collect_errors 0
# HELP gateway_wan_bytes_received bytes received on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_bytes_received counter
gateway_wan_bytes_received{gateway="fritz.box"} 5.037749914e+09
# HELP gateway_wan_bytes_sent bytes sent on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_bytes_sent counter
gateway_wan_bytes_sent{gateway="fritz.box"} 2.55707479e+08
# HELP gateway_wan_connection_status WAN connection status (Connected = 1)
# TYPE gateway_wan_connection_status gauge
gateway_wan_connection_status{gateway="fritz.box"} 1
# HELP gateway_wan_connection_uptime_seconds WAN connection uptime
# TYPE gateway_wan_connection_uptime_seconds gauge
gateway_wan_connection_uptime_seconds{gateway="fritz.box"} 65259
# HELP gateway_wan_layer1_downstream_max_bitrate Layer1 downstream max bitrate
# TYPE gateway_wan_layer1_downstream_max_bitrate gauge
gateway_wan_layer1_downstream_max_bitrate{gateway="fritz.box"} 1.286e+07
# HELP gateway_wan_layer1_link_status Status of physical link (Up = 1)
# TYPE gateway_wan_layer1_link_status gauge
gateway_wan_layer1_link_status{gateway="fritz.box"} 1
# HELP gateway_wan_layer1_upstream_max_bitrate Layer1 upstream max bitrate
# TYPE gateway_wan_layer1_upstream_max_bitrate gauge
gateway_wan_layer1_upstream_max_bitrate{gateway="fritz.box"} 1.148e+06
# HELP gateway_wan_packets_received packets received on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_packets_received counter
gateway_wan_packets_received{gateway="fritz.box"} 1.346625e+06
# HELP gateway_wan_packets_sent packets sent on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_packets_sent counter
gateway_wan_packets_sent{gateway="fritz.box"} 3.05051e+06
```

## Output of -test

The exporter prints all available Variables to stdout when called with the -test option.
These values are determined by parsing all services from http://fritz.box:49000/igddesc.xml

    Name: urn:schemas-any-com:service:Any:1
    WANDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANCommonInterfaceConfig:1
      GetCommonLinkProperties
        WANAccessType: DSL
        Layer1UpstreamMaxBitRate: 1148000
        Layer1DownstreamMaxBitRate: 12860000
        PhysicalLinkStatus: Up
      GetTotalBytesSent
        TotalBytesSent: 255710914
      GetTotalBytesReceived
        TotalBytesReceived: 5037753042
      GetTotalPacketsSent
        TotalPacketsSent: 3050536
      GetTotalPacketsReceived
        TotalPacketsReceived: 1346651
      GetAddonInfos
        ByteSendRate: 0
        ByteReceiveRate: 0
        PacketSendRate: 0
        PacketReceiveRate: 0
        TotalBytesSent: 255710914
        TotalBytesReceived: 5037753042
        AutoDisconnectTime: 0
        IdleDisconnectTime: 10
        DNSServer1: 1.1.1.1
        DNSServer2: 2.2.2.2
        VoipDNSServer1: 1.1.1.1
        VoipDNSServer2: 2.2.2.2
        UpnpControlEnabled: false
        RoutedBridgedModeBoth: 1
    WANConnectionDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANDSLLinkConfig:1
      GetDSLLinkInfo
        LinkType: PPPoE
        LinkStatus: Up
      GetModulationType
        ModulationType: ADSL G.lite
      GetDestinationAddress
        DestinationAddress: NONE
      GetATMEncapsulation
        ATMEncapsulation: LLC
      GetFCSPreserved
        FCSPreserved: true
      GetAutoConfig
        AutoConfig: true
    WANConnectionDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANIPConnection:1
      X_AVM_DE_GetDNSServer
        IPv4DNSServer1: 1.1.1.1
        IPv4DNSServer2: 2.2.2.2
      GetAutoDisconnectTime
        AutoDisconnectTime: 0
      GetIdleDisconnectTime
        IdleDisconnectTime: 0
      X_AVM_DE_GetExternalIPv6Address
        ExternalIPv6Address:
        PrefixLength: 0
        ValidLifetime: 0
        PreferedLifetime: 0
      GetNATRSIPStatus
        RSIPAvailable: false
        NATEnabled: true
      GetExternalIPAddress
        ExternalIPAddress: 1.1.1.1
      X_AVM_DE_GetIPv6Prefix
        IPv6Prefix:
        PrefixLength: 0
        ValidLifetime: 0
        PreferedLifetime: 0
      X_AVM_DE_GetIPv6DNSServer
        IPv6DNSServer1:
        ValidLifetime1: 2002000000
        IPv6DNSServer2:
        ValidLifetime2: 199800000
      GetConnectionTypeInfo
        ConnectionType: IP_Routed
        PossibleConnectionTypes: IP_Routed
      GetStatusInfo
        ConnectionStatus: Connected
        LastConnectionError: ERROR_NONE
        Uptime: 65386
    WANConnectionDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANIPv6FirewallControl:1
      GetFirewallStatus
        FirewallEnabled: true
        InboundPinholeAllowed: false

Commit message:

Add documentation for a sample systemd service

README.md, after:

# FRITZ!Box Upnp statistics exporter for Prometheus

This exporter exports some variables from an [AVM Fritzbox](https://avm.de/produkte/fritzbox/) to Prometheus.

### (Looking for additional maintainers!)

[![Docker Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter) ![Test Docker](https://github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/workflows/Test%20Docker/badge.svg) ![Contributions](https://img.shields.io/badge/contributions-welcome-brightgreen)

![FRITZ!Box Prometheus Exporter](./docs/logo.svg)

## Compatibility

This exporter is known to work with the following models:

| Model          | Firmware |
|----------------|----------|
| FRITZ!Box 4040 | 06.83    |
| FRITZ!Box 7390 | 06.51    |
| FRITZ!Box 7490 | 06.51    |
| FRITZ!Box 6490 | 06.52    |
| FRITZ!Box 7560 | 06.92    |

**FRITZ!OS 7 is not fully supported!**

## Building

```bash
go get github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/cmd/exporter
go get ./...
go build
```

## Prerequisites

There has to be UPnP enabled.

## FRITZ!OS 7.00+

`Heimnetz` > `Netzwerk` > `Netwerkeinstellungen` > `Statusinformationen über UPnP übertragen`

## FRITZ!OS 6

`Heimnetz` > `Heimnetzübersicht` > `Netzwerkeinstellungen` > `Statusinformationen über UPnP übertragen`

## Usage

```bash
$GOPATH/src/github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/cmd/exporter/exporter -h
Usage $GOPATH/src/github.com/mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter/cmd/exporter/exporter:
  -gateway-address string
      The hostname or IP of the FRITZ!Box (default "fritz.box")
  -gateway-port int
      The port of the FRITZ!Box UPnP service (default 49000)
  -listen-address string
      The address to listen on for HTTP requests. (default ":9133")
  -test
      print all available metrics to stdout
```

### With Docker

```shell
docker run -d --name fritzbox-exporter -p "9133:9133" mxschmitt/fritzbox_exporter
```

Then call the metrics endpoint on http://localhost:9133/metrics

### Configuration

|    CLI-Argument    |               Environment               |       Default         |                 Description                 |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| `-stdout`          | `FRITZ_BOX_EXPORTER_STDOUT`             | `0` (bool)            | Print all available metrics to stdout       |
| `-listen-address`  | `FRITZ_BOX_EXPORTER_LISTEN_ADDR`        | `:9133` (string)      | The address to listen on for HTTP requests. |
| `-gateway-address` | `FRITZ_BOX_EXPORTER_FRITZ_BOX_IP`       | `fritz.box` (string)  | The hostname or IP of the FRITZ!Box         |
| `-gateway-port`    | `FRITZ_BOX_EXPORTER_FRITZ_BOX_PORT`     | `49000` (int)         | The port of the FRITZ!Box UPnP service      |
| `-username`        | `FRITZ_BOX_EXPORTER_FRITZ_BOX_USERNAME` | `<empty>` (string)           | The port of the FRITZ!Box UPnP service      |
| `-password`        | `FRITZ_BOX_EXPORTER_FRITZ_BOX_PASSWORD` | `<empty>` (string)           | The password for the FRITZ!Box UPnP service |

### Sytemd Setup

To install and run this exporter as a systemd service, you need to create a user, copy the binary to its home folder and create a systemd unit. A sample service is provided in the docs folder.  In there, configuration is done trough a `.env` so no daemon-reload is necessary after changing the configuration. See above, or in the example `.env` file in the `docs` folder, for the available environment variables and how to use them.

```bash
# useradd fritzbox_exporter -d /etc/fritzbox_exporter -s /bin/nologin
# cp exporter /etc/fritzbox_exporter/exporter
# chown fritzbox_exporter:fritzbox_exporter -R /etc/fritzbox_exporter/
# sudo -u fritzbox_exporter -s
$ cd ~
$ vim .env # See docs/.env
$ exit
# vim /etc/systemd/system/fritzbox_exporter.service # See docs/fritzbox_exporter.service
# systemctl daemon-reload
# systemctl enable --now fritzbox_exporter.service
```

## Exported metrics

These metrics are exported:

```bash
# HELP fritzbox_exporter_collect_errors Number of collection errors.
# TYPE fritzbox_exporter_collect_errors counter
fritzbox_exporter_collect_errors 0
# HELP gateway_wan_bytes_received bytes received on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_bytes_received counter
gateway_wan_bytes_received{gateway="fritz.box"} 5.037749914e+09
# HELP gateway_wan_bytes_sent bytes sent on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_bytes_sent counter
gateway_wan_bytes_sent{gateway="fritz.box"} 2.55707479e+08
# HELP gateway_wan_connection_status WAN connection status (Connected = 1)
# TYPE gateway_wan_connection_status gauge
gateway_wan_connection_status{gateway="fritz.box"} 1
# HELP gateway_wan_connection_uptime_seconds WAN connection uptime
# TYPE gateway_wan_connection_uptime_seconds gauge
gateway_wan_connection_uptime_seconds{gateway="fritz.box"} 65259
# HELP gateway_wan_layer1_downstream_max_bitrate Layer1 downstream max bitrate
# TYPE gateway_wan_layer1_downstream_max_bitrate gauge
gateway_wan_layer1_downstream_max_bitrate{gateway="fritz.box"} 1.286e+07
# HELP gateway_wan_layer1_link_status Status of physical link (Up = 1)
# TYPE gateway_wan_layer1_link_status gauge
gateway_wan_layer1_link_status{gateway="fritz.box"} 1
# HELP gateway_wan_layer1_upstream_max_bitrate Layer1 upstream max bitrate
# TYPE gateway_wan_layer1_upstream_max_bitrate gauge
gateway_wan_layer1_upstream_max_bitrate{gateway="fritz.box"} 1.148e+06
# HELP gateway_wan_packets_received packets received on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_packets_received counter
gateway_wan_packets_received{gateway="fritz.box"} 1.346625e+06
# HELP gateway_wan_packets_sent packets sent on gateway WAN interface
# TYPE gateway_wan_packets_sent counter
gateway_wan_packets_sent{gateway="fritz.box"} 3.05051e+06
```

## Output of -test

The exporter prints all available Variables to stdout when called with the -test option.
These values are determined by parsing all services from http://fritz.box:49000/igddesc.xml

    Name: urn:schemas-any-com:service:Any:1
    WANDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANCommonInterfaceConfig:1
      GetCommonLinkProperties
        WANAccessType: DSL
        Layer1UpstreamMaxBitRate: 1148000
        Layer1DownstreamMaxBitRate: 12860000
        PhysicalLinkStatus: Up
      GetTotalBytesSent
        TotalBytesSent: 255710914
      GetTotalBytesReceived
        TotalBytesReceived: 5037753042
      GetTotalPacketsSent
        TotalPacketsSent: 3050536
      GetTotalPacketsReceived
        TotalPacketsReceived: 1346651
      GetAddonInfos
        ByteSendRate: 0
        ByteReceiveRate: 0
        PacketSendRate: 0
        PacketReceiveRate: 0
        TotalBytesSent: 255710914
        TotalBytesReceived: 5037753042
        AutoDisconnectTime: 0
        IdleDisconnectTime: 10
        DNSServer1: 1.1.1.1
        DNSServer2: 2.2.2.2
        VoipDNSServer1: 1.1.1.1
        VoipDNSServer2: 2.2.2.2
        UpnpControlEnabled: false
        RoutedBridgedModeBoth: 1
    WANConnectionDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANDSLLinkConfig:1
      GetDSLLinkInfo
        LinkType: PPPoE
        LinkStatus: Up
      GetModulationType
        ModulationType: ADSL G.lite
      GetDestinationAddress
        DestinationAddress: NONE
      GetATMEncapsulation
        ATMEncapsulation: LLC
      GetFCSPreserved
        FCSPreserved: true
      GetAutoConfig
        AutoConfig: true
    WANConnectionDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANIPConnection:1
      X_AVM_DE_GetDNSServer
        IPv4DNSServer1: 1.1.1.1
        IPv4DNSServer2: 2.2.2.2
      GetAutoDisconnectTime
        AutoDisconnectTime: 0
      GetIdleDisconnectTime
        IdleDisconnectTime: 0
      X_AVM_DE_GetExternalIPv6Address
        ExternalIPv6Address:
        PrefixLength: 0
        ValidLifetime: 0
        PreferedLifetime: 0
      GetNATRSIPStatus
        RSIPAvailable: false
        NATEnabled: true
      GetExternalIPAddress
        ExternalIPAddress: 1.1.1.1
      X_AVM_DE_GetIPv6Prefix
        IPv6Prefix:
        PrefixLength: 0
        ValidLifetime: 0
        PreferedLifetime: 0
      X_AVM_DE_GetIPv6DNSServer
        IPv6DNSServer1:
        ValidLifetime1: 2002000000
        IPv6DNSServer2:
        ValidLifetime2: 199800000
      GetConnectionTypeInfo
        ConnectionType: IP_Routed
        PossibleConnectionTypes: IP_Routed
      GetStatusInfo
        ConnectionStatus: Connected
        LastConnectionError: ERROR_NONE
        Uptime: 65386
    WANConnectionDevice - FRITZ!Box 7490: urn:schemas-upnp-org:service:WANIPv6FirewallControl:1
      GetFirewallStatus
        FirewallEnabled: true
        InboundPinholeAllowed: false
